Artificial intelligence is an extremely
powerful tool. And as a small business
owner or content creator, you can use it
to create more content and or better
content in less time. In today's
episode, I'm going to share with you six
different AI tools that you can use to
work smarter and not harder in order to
create more content that is more
captivating, thus allowing you to get
more views, grow more followers, and
most of all, convert those followers
into customers. All six of these AI
tools are tools that I use on a weekly
basis that allow me to spend less time
on Instagram. In fact, I'm now spending
only about 15 minutes per day actually
using Instagram for business, and the
rest of my time is spent being an actual
business owner or doing the things that
only I can do, which is create content
like the podcast that you're watching
right now. Let's get right into things.
AI tool number one is one that you
definitely haven't heard of before, and
it's none other than Chat GPT. Of
course, all jokes aside, you've
definitely heard of it. You've probably
used Chat GPT. But while this may sound
simple and you might be thinking,
"Really? Did I just click on a podcast
that was about AI tools and he's talking
about Chat GPT?" Yes, because I firmly
believe that if you can use these tools
better, then you don't need 17 other
tools. You don't need a subscription to
every new AI app, which it feels like
there's a new one every single week
popping up that you need to download and
need to hop on. If you can use Chat GPT
better, then you're going to be ahead of
90% of other small business owners and
content creators. And my first tip that
will help you use Chat GPT better is
instead of only asking Chat GPT
questions and giving Chat GPT
instructions, I want you to start asking
Chat GPT to ask you questions. Often
times, when we are prompting Chat GPT
and giving it instructions, we're
guessing at the information that it
needs to know. When ultimately, it knows
what it needs to know. It knows what
information would be most helpful for it
to create the best possible outcome for
you. So, tell it the outcome that you
want it to create, but then ask Chat
GPT, literally, to ask you questions so
that it can help create a better output
for you. My second tip to use Chat GPT
better is to use projects. An easy way
to think about Chat GPT and projects is
that I want you to imagine every
conversation that you have with Chat GPT
as a piece of paper that you are putting
into a binder. If all you do when using
Chat GPT is open a new thread, ask a
random question, ask it to help you
write a reel, whatever that is, and then
repeat that process the next time you
open Chat GPT, it's never going to learn
very well. It's not going to be as
advanced as you would want it to be.
It's not going to remember all of the
things you want it to remember. Instead,
when you use projects, it's kind of like
putting a folder into that binder. So,
you can tell Chat GPT that whenever you
are working within that folder, it's
going to automatically remember all of
the other pieces of paper that you've
previously put into that folder. I have
a separate folder for YouTube, a
separate folder for Instagram Reels, a
separate folder for my email
copywriting, and I use these different
folders or, as I should say, actually
called projects, so that Chat GPT can
remember more details about me without
me having to repeat them every single
time. For example, if I need help coming
up with a script for one of my Reels, I
don't have to start by telling Chat GPT
what my niche is, what my goals are,
what my normal tone of voice is. I have
had so many previous conversations with
it that it already knows those things
about me. Additionally, I have uploaded
transcripts. I have uploaded PDFs. I
have uploaded files and documents that
show Chat GPT, "This is what I normally
speak like. This is my normal speaking
pattern. This is my normal tone and
style of voice." So, that not only has
it learned that through our
back-and-forth conversations, but it has
literally read hours and hours of how I
normally speak, so that I don't have to
tell it all that information. For those
of you who don't know, if you want Chat
GPT to store any specific information or
prompt or data that you've given it,
literally just ask it. Tell Chat GPT
what your niche is and then say,
"Remember this information for our
future conversations." And it will
respond, "Got it. I've taken note of
your niche." Another thing that I love
to do within Chat GPT projects is store
prompts. So, instead of having to copy
and paste the same prompt every single
time, I will put in the prompt once, and
often times I will leave it with blanks
or intentional areas that I will later
fill in based off the specific details,
and then I will ask Chat GPT to store
that prompt as maybe a certain keyword
or even just a certain letter. For
example, the descriptions below each of
these YouTube videos is often times
created, at least partially, by Chat
GPT. And instead of having to give Chat
GPT this really long prompt detailing
all of the instructions that I want and
all of the things I want included and
excluded from my description, I can just
say the letter D and then a colon and
then the title of the YouTube video, and
then it will figure out the rest and
create the description for me without
needing that additional information. But
with all of that said, I know sometimes
it's nice to just have someone give you
a prompt, so let me read this one off to
you. And by the way, this entire prompt
is written in the description of this
episode, so if you want to just copy and
paste it, you can do that, too. But the
prompt is, "You are an expert Instagram
strategist who helps creators plan viral
Reels. Create a detailed Reel outline
for someone in the blank niche whose
ideal audience is blank. Period. Their
tone should be insert tone or style, and
the goal of this post is blank.
The topic is and then insert the main
idea, and the preferred video style is
talking head, trend, tutorial, B-roll,
skit, etc.
With a target length of insert amount of
time. Include a one-sentence overview,
three different hook options, a
beat-by-beat outline with timestamps and
short text on-screen suggestions, visual
and camera direction, and a caption.
Write everything in a way that maximizes
retention, relatability, and
shareability, and match the pacing and
tone to my ideal audience. End by
suggesting a fitting call to action and
possibly a few audios or background
songs that fit the mood of the video.
Now, obviously, if you've already
created a folder or what Chat GPT calls
a project, then you won't have to spend
as much time when filling out that
prompt by telling it what your niche is
or your audience description or your
preferred kind of Reel, because it will
know all of that information already.
The final tip that I want to give to you
about Chat GPT before we move on is that
you should be treating Chat GPT like a
human being assistant, like someone who
is on your staff. And what I mean by
that is that you should be giving
feedback and corrections directly to
Chat GPT. If I had a staff member whose
sole job was writing emails, which I do,
by the way, and she wrote an email for
me and I was like, "Eh,
it's good, but it's not great." And then
I took it and I rewrote it myself before
it was sent off to our email list, then
she would never learn. And every single
time she finished writing an email, she
would think she did a good job, but then
I would have to spend extra time and
work revising and editing it. Instead,
if whenever she gave me an email, I gave
her the feedback. I told her the
corrections to make. And I didn't tell
her explicitly what to correct or what
to change, but I told her how I wanted
it to change. I gave her feedback on why
I liked certain things or why I didn't
like certain things or how I wanted the
email to come across, then over time,
she would become a much better email
copywriter, and then each time she
finished writing an email, I would have
to spend less time giving her feedback
and way less time correcting or
rewriting the email myself. And so, what
I want you to do is when you are using
Chat GPT, treat it the same way. Rather
than just taking what it gives you and
then editing it on your own or taking
the scripts that it writes for your
Reels and then tweaking the words as you
go, give it the feedback and continue to
give it the feedback until it gets it
right, and make sure you're asking it to
remember the feedback along the way, so
that it's actually learning from what
you're telling it. I think Chat GPT is a
great tool, but admittedly, it's not
necessarily an expert in any one area.
It's really a jack-of-all-trades,
but a master of none. And often times,
Chat GPT is getting its information, its
strategies from places like Reddit and
Wikipedia, which aren't always the most
trustworthy of sources. And that's why I
have created my own Chat GPT, if you
will. I like to call it the Brock Bot.
And the Brock Bot is if my brain, my
Instagram strategies, tips, knowledge,
all of the things that you hear on this
podcast and more, my private notes, my
detailed strategies, the things we teach
inside the InstaClubHub, all of that and
Chat GPT had a baby together. So, it's a
generative AI chatbot just like Chat
GPT. It works using it, interfacing with
it, communicating with it is just like
Chat GPT, but the difference is it is
already an Instagram expert. And so,
while Chat GPT might require certain
prompts to get you the best Instagram
outputs, for example, you might have to
tell Chat GPT that you want your hooks
to be between five and 10 words long,
you want them to be below a fifth-grade
reading level, and you want them to be
negative framed if possible, because
that's what I teach. If you use the
Brock Bot, you don't have to spend all
that extra time prompting it, because it
already knows. It's already been trained
on all of my strategies and best
practices. And so, that's why AI tool
number two that I recommend to save time
and get better results on Instagram is
the Brock Bot. If you're an InstaClubHub
annual or lifetime member, you get free
access to the Brock Bot. If you're an
InstaClubHub monthly member, there's a
discounted Brock Bot membership inside
the InstaClubHub. And if you have no
idea what the InstaClubHub is, then you
can purchase the Brock Bot for, I think
it's about $11 a month. I'll put the
link down in the show notes below. Quick
side story about the Brock Bot. When I
was creating it, I was trying to figure
out like where I was going to host it,
what was the web tool and service that I
was going to use to have the Brock Bot
in one location, and I'm not a very
techy person. The worst grade that I got
in my entire life, high school, college,
everything, was actually a computer
programming and tech web design class
that I took in college. I almost failed.
I think I got like a D-minus. I don't
know how that technically passed, but I
digress. And so, when I was trying to
figure out where to host the BrockBot, I
stumbled across HighLevel, a tool that
you have likely heard of before. And I
didn't really know much about it, but I
quickly learned that it's truly a jack
of all trades. It is a tool that you can
use to have your email list, to host
your membership site, to have a course,
to have your funnels built. Basically,
anything that you would want to do on
the systems, automations, or marketing
side of your business can be done on
HighLevel. And my favorite part about
HighLevel is that even though it's a
jack of all trades, so it can fit your
needs and grow with you as your business
and, hopefully, your team grows, they
have unequivocally the best customer
service and customer support that I have
ever experienced in my entire life. Like
I said, I suck at coding. I suck at all
that techy stuff. But, when I was
setting up my HighLevel site for the
first time, I was able to, literally,
within seconds, hop on a Zoom call with
some of their customer support team who
was just standing by, ready to help me
out, and they were able to walk me
step-by-step through everything that I
needed to do, and it was so extremely
impressive. And so, if you're an
entrepreneur who has an agency or a
small business that you're trying to
grow, I highly recommend checking out
HighLevel. Especially if you're someone
who wants something that's simple,
something that can grow with you over
time, but you're actually going to get
the seed planted and growing in the
first place. Down in the description,
I'll make sure to put the link to sign
up for HighLevel, and I highly recommend
it because, at the end of the day,
growing an Instagram is not the same as
growing a business. You need the
third-party tools, the software, the
automations, the tech, the email list,
the landing page, the membership, all of
those things. You need that to actually
have a business, and when using
HighLevel, you can create those things
easier than anywhere else. The third AI
tool that's going to save you so much
time on Instagram is Opus Clip. Opus
Clip is a video editing software that
basically takes your long-form video,
whether it's a podcast, a YouTube video,
an Instagram Live, or just a long video
that you have recorded, and
automatically pulls out succinct sound
bite moments. And the cool thing about
Opus Clip is that it will automatically
chop it up for you. It can remove dead
spaces, and it can even add closed
captions if you want it to, so that most
of the editing is done for you. Three
pro tips that I want to recommend for
you if you are going to use Opus Clip or
any similar app that takes long-form
videos and cuts them down into
short-form is, number one, make sure
that the video can stand on its own. I
think way too often, I have seen
podcasters and YouTubers take clips that
were automatically generated by Opus
Clip or Munch or whomever, and they just
post that as it is onto their Instagram,
but the clip has no context. It can't
stand on its own. It kind of feels like
just a random segment from a YouTube
video, and so it's not very engaging.
And also, because it's not a complete
coherent thought, when we finish
watching the clip, the call to action is
like, "Okay, well, if you want to
understand this clip, if you want the
full context, if you want to know more,
watch the full YouTube video." But,
let's be real. If someone's scrolling on
Instagram, getting them to go watch a
YouTube video, getting them to go listen
to a podcast is not easy because they're
going from 8-second clip, 8-second clip,
8-second clip, short video, short video,
story, story, and then you're asking
them to watch a 30-minute YouTube video
or listen to an hour-long podcast. It's
just a completely different mindset. And
so, I think posting about your YouTube
videos or your podcasts on Instagram is
helpful, definitely. I mean, I do it all
the time myself, but posting about your
YouTube videos or your podcasts just as
a way to kind of wave the advertising
flag and let people know that the
podcast is there and encourage them to
go listen right now, it's probably not
going to have the best results. Instead,
you're going to have much better
results, like I said, tip number one was
if the clip itself, if the moment, if
the sound bite has context or if it's
cohesive and it has a coherent thought,
so that people can understand what the
clip is about and learn from it or be
entertained by it without having to
watch the full podcast. And one easy way
that you can do that is tip number two,
which is use what I like to call the
two-slide carousel. I talked about this
idea in last week's episode about nine
creative Instagram hacks, and I also
talked about this in my eight creative
carousel ideas video, where I give you
eight creative carousel ideas, but
essentially, the two-slide carousel has
a first slide that operates as a hook, a
headline. It's just a few short words,
maybe one to two sentences max, that
creates curiosity and makes someone want
to swipe and basically read the rest of
the story or watch the rest of the
content. But then, when they swipe onto
that second slide of the carousel,
instead of being more text or detailed
story, it's the reel. It's the video.
It's the clip that Opus Clip
automatically created for you from your
YouTube video or podcast. And then, my
final tip for those of you who are going
to be using Opus Clip or Munch or any
other adjacent tool is make sure that
you add B-roll. Some of these tools will
automatically give you spaces where you
can insert your own B-roll. Some of them
will automatically grab B-roll clips for
you from stock footage, and some of them
will even use AI tools to create B-roll
that is AI generated, which is pretty
cool, pretty powerful, but just make
sure that you're adding B-roll. B-roll
is visuals. B-roll is the
behind-the-scenes footage. B-roll is
videos that relate to what you're
talking about, so that it's not just a
talking-head video, because I know this
is going to be crazy to say as a
podcaster or someone who's just been
talking to the camera for the last 20
minutes. It can be pretty boring to just
watch a talking head. So, the more
B-roll, the more visuals, the more
additional clips or photos that you can
add to your reel, the more engaging it
will be. AI tool number four that will
allow you to create more posts in less
time and get better results because your
posts are going to be more engaging is
Canva. Now, Canva is a tool that so many
people have used. I think every small
business owner and content creator over
the age of 30 has a Canva account at
this point, but there are three AI tools
baked into Canva that I use on pretty
much a daily basis. The first one is the
background remover tool. The background
remover is pretty simple. It just uses
AI to detect what the background of the
photo is and then remove that from the
image. But, one of my favorite little
tricks that I like to use is I will
stack two of the exact same photos on
top of each other, and then I will
remove the background from the image
that's on top, which at that point looks
no different, but then I will select the
bottom image, which is basically the
background image, and I will slightly
blur that entire image, which just makes
it look a little bit out of focus. It
allows my focal point, which is in the
foreground, to be more in focus or to
pop off the page or to stand out. It's
just a very easy way to make your photos
look a little bit nicer and allow you to
direct people's focus and attention when
they're looking at your carousels or
photos. The second AI tool that I use in
Canva all the time, which by the way,
all of these are part of Canva's Magic
Studio, is the image extender.
Basically, it can fill in the gaps and
use predictive AI technologies to figure
out what it thinks would be outside of
the frames. I often use this when I have
a horizontal photo that I want to take
up the full page of the carousel because
it's not 2017. We shouldn't have white
borders on our photos anymore on
Instagram. And then, the third AI tool
that I use all of the time in Canva is
the magic eraser. The magic eraser is
also pretty self-explanatory. You can
essentially just use a pen and kind of
scribble over any part of your photo
that you want removed, and Canva will do
its best to automatically remove that
from the image. AI tool number five that
I absolutely love is baked into another
tool that I absolutely love, which is
Metricool. Metricool is the platform
that I use to schedule all of my
content. I'm currently posting content
on about seven or eight different
platforms, about 30 to 40 individual
unique posts per week across all of
these platforms, and I love using
Metricool, so that I can schedule all of
those posts in one place, and I can use
their baked-in AI tools to tailor the
content, so that it fits each platform.
One of my good friends and fellow
YouTuber, Sean Cannell, likes to say
that each platform has its own dress
code. While there might be short-form
videos on YouTube, YouTube Shorts,
Instagram, Instagram Reels, and TikTok,
ultimately, each platform has its own
audience, its own users, its own
algorithms, and so the way that your
content should look and sound and the
way that your captions should be written
is going to vary slightly from platform
to platform. And I don't know about you,
but trying to come up with a caption for
each platform or trying to custom tailor
and uh put on the right dress code to
match each platform would be way too
overwhelming. And so, I use the
Metricool AI assistant to help me
rewrite captions, change the tone. I use
it to make captions longer or shorter,
depending on which platform I'm using.
To access the Metricool AI assistant,
all you have to do is tap this little
button inside of Metricool, and then
we'll open up the window where you can
interface with and use their AI
assistant. Like I said, play around with
all of the different buttons on the
right-hand side of the screen, and
you'll be pretty impressed with the
capabilities of this AI assistant. And
then, sixth, last but not least, another
AI tool that I like to use, and this one
is going to be especially helpful for
those of you who are visual people, who
like to have everything laid out in
front of you. If ChatGPT and the
BrockBot are frustrating because it's
just like a back-and-forth text
conversation, and you want something
that you can actually look at, you can
zoom out, you can zoom in, and it's all
laid out, Poppy AI is the tool for you.
An easy way to think of Poppy AI is it's
kind of like a whiteboard if the
whiteboard itself had all of this super
smart AI technology baked into it.
Basically, you can drag and drop or copy
and paste YouTube videos, Instagram
posts, TikTok videos, entire PDFs,
files, ebooks. You can take all of this
information from different places, links
from all over the internet, put it all
onto this whiteboard, essentially, and
then, like a normal would, use arrows to
kind of draw like what is connected to
what, what is supposed to be referenced
when, and then you can use it and ask it
questions just like you would the Brock
bot or Chat GPT. Here's a super easy
four-step workflow that you can use
within Poppy. Step number one is to find
10 viral videos that you are really
inspired by. These could be viral videos
within your niche or they could even be
viral videos from outside of your niche
that you just find super captivating,
super well done, or super engaging. And
then paste the link to those 10 Reels
into your Poppy whiteboard. Basically,
you're going to be using these 10 viral
videos to inform Poppy and teach it,
"These are what I'm looking for. These
are what I want you to be inspired by.
These are what I want you to learn
from." Then, you're going to take 10 of
your own Reels. Preferably, these would
be Reels that fit your normal style.
Maybe if they're talking head Reels,
they're done in the way that you would
normally talk, your normal tone, your
normal uh presentation style for your
videos. Basically, 10 of your Reels that
you would point to and say, "Yeah, these
are a good example of what I would
normally post." Take those and paste
those onto your Poppy board as well. And
essentially, those will be used to teach
Poppy, "Hey, this is me. This is what I
normally sound like. This is what I
normally post about. This is my niche.
This is my normal topics." So that Poppy
knows those things about you. Then, I
want you to copy and paste my YouTube
video that I posted a few months ago
about share-worthy content. Shares are
the best form of engagement on
Instagram. A share is unequivocally the
best way to get more views. If you want
to go viral, if you want to reach more
people, getting more shares is how you
do that. So, by taking the link to that
YouTube video, which is going to be
linked up in the description below, and
pasting that onto your Poppy board, you
have basically now taught your Poppy
assistant what it takes to create
share-worthy content. Then, basically
just use the little arrows and drag and
connect all of these different elements
into one chat where you will insert the
following prompt. Create five viral Reel
outlines, including shot lists and
scripts, relating to blank. That's where
you would give it the topic or what you
want the Reels to be about that fit the
tone and style of my normal Reels while
also incorporating the framework from
the 10 viral Reels and the tips given by
Brock in his YouTube video about
share-worthy content. Ultimately, the
secret for growing on Instagram is
posting a high quantity of high-quality
content. Posting a lot of good posts.
And with AI, you can create a lot more
posts that are a lot more engaging and
captivating in less time so that you can
spend more time doing what only you can
do, building relationships, expressing
empathy, figuring out the pain points,
the struggles, and the challenges of
your students and your customers,
solving those needs for them, and
ultimately, running your business. Thank
you so much for watching today, and I
totally forgot to ask earlier, but if
you want more content around growing a
business on Instagram, make sure to hit
that subscribe button because we come
out with a new episode of this podcast
every single Monday. And as always,
happy networking.